README.rst, before:

.. _DjangoCMS: http://www.django-cms.org/
.. _South: http://south.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
.. _django-filebrowser: https://github.com/sehmaschine/django-filebrowser
.. _django-filebrowser-no-grappelli: https://github.com/smacker/django-filebrowser-no-grappelli
.. _djangocms_text_ckeditor: https://github.com/divio/djangocms-text-ckeditor
.. _django-ckeditor: https://github.com/shaunsephton/django-ckeditor

Introduction
============

Very simple, you can have **multiple Slideshows** and each of them **have their own slides**. Slides can be ordered and they contains a title, an optional content text, an optional URL and an optional image.

Slideshows can use custom templates and custom config templates. Config templates are used to contains some Javascript to configure/initialize your slideshow with your slider library. But by default a Slideshow item have no config template, this is optional.

It does not contains any assets to integrate it in your site, this is at your responsability to integrate it (choose and install your slider library, add your assets where you need, customize the template, etc..).

Links
*****

* Download his `PyPi package <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/emencia-django-slideshows>`_;
* Clone it on his `Github repository <https://github.com/emencia/emencia-django-slideshows>`_;

Require
=======

* Django >= 1.6 (Django <= 1.5 support has been dropped);
* `django-filebrowser-no-grappelli`_ >= 3.5.6;

Optional
********

* `South`_ migration is supported. This is not required, but strongly recommended for future updates;
* `DjangoCMS`_ >= 3.0 if you want to use slideshows `With the DjangoCMS plugins`_;
* `djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ >= 2.4.0 (it will depends from your `DjangoCMS`_ version) OR `django-ckeditor`_ >= 4.4.4;

Ckeditor
--------

A Ckeditor django app (`djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ OR `django-ckeditor`_) can be installed to use it for the ``Slide.content`` model attribute instead of the simple ``TextField``.

So **it is at your responsability** to manualy install (with pip, buildout, etc..) one of them if you need it. Once it's installed, you won't need to worry about this again.

Note that the default assumed app is `djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ and only if not installed, `django-ckeditor`_ will be assumed. So if you have installed all of them, `djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ will be used. If none of them is installed, the default Django field ``TextField`` will be used.

Choosing what app to install depends mostly from if you have allready installed DjangoCMS or not. If you have, you probably allready have its ckeditor app installed, so no need to install the other app because it will not be used. If you don't have installed DjangoCMS, just install `django-ckeditor`_.

Finally you can add custom settings for CKeditor, see the django app documentation to see how to set them (then you probably will have to go to the official CKeditor documentation to know all available settings).

Install
=======

Add it to your installed apps in the settings : ::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'slideshows',
        'filebrowser',
        ...
    )

If you have installed one of the django app for CKeditor, add it also to your ``settings.INSTALLED_APPS``.
    
Then add the following settings : ::

    # Available templates to display a slideshow
    SLIDESHOWS_TEMPLATES = (
        ("slideshows/slides_show/default.html", "Default template"),
    )

    # Available config file to initialize your slideshow Javascript stuff
    SLIDESHOWS_CONFIGS = (
        ("slideshows/slides_show/configs/default.html", "Default config"),
    )

    # Available templates for "random slide" mode
    SLIDESHOWS_RANDOM_SLIDE_TEMPLATES = (
        ("slideshows/random_slide/default.html", "Random image default"),
    )

    # Default templates to use in admin forms
    DEFAULT_SLIDESHOWS_TEMPLATE = SLIDESHOWS_TEMPLATES[0][0]
    DEFAULT_SLIDESHOWS_CONFIG = ""
    DEFAULT_SLIDESHOWS_RANDOM_SLIDE_TEMPLATE = SLIDESHOWS_RANDOM_SLIDE_TEMPLATES[0][0]

And some `django-filebrowser-no-grappelli`_ basic settings (see its documentation for more details) : ::

    FILEBROWSER_VERSIONS_BASEDIR = '_uploads_versions'

    FILEBROWSER_MAX_UPLOAD_SIZE = 10*1024*1024 # 10 Mb

    FILEBROWSER_NORMALIZE_FILENAME = True

And add its views to your main ``urls.py`` : ::

    from django.conf.urls import url, patterns
    from filebrowser.sites import site as filebrowser_site

    urlpatterns = patterns('',
        ...
        url(r'^slideshows/', include('slideshows.urls', namespace='slideshows')),
        url(r'^admin/filebrowser/', include(filebrowser_site.urls)),
        ...
    )

You can fill entries with your custom templates if needed.

And finally add the new models to your database : ::

    ./manage.py syncdb

If DjangoCMS is installed (this should be as `djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ require it), a plugin will be available to use slideshows in your pages.

Update
======

If you have installed `South`_, after updating an existing install to a major new version you can automatically update your database : ::

    ./manage.py migrate slideshows

Usage
=====

Either with the template tag or the `DjangoCMS`_ plugins, the process to build the HTML will be to generate the optional config HTML if any, then generate the content HTML (where the config HTML would be avalaible as a context variable).

The common way is to display a Slideshow with all its slides, this is called the **Slides show**. And there is an *extra mode* called **Random slide** which only a display a single slide take randomly from the published slides of a Slideshow.

With the template tag
*********************

Create your slideshow from the admin, feed it with some slides, then use it in your templates : ::
    
    {% load slideshows_tags %}
    ...
    {% slideshow_render 'your-slug' %}

The first argument accept either a slug string or a Slideshow instance.

Also you can override the content template and the config template saved within the template tag : ::
    
    {% load slideshows_tags %}
    ...
    {% slideshow_render 'your-slug' 'slideshows/slides_show/custom.html' 'slideshows/slides_show/configs/custom.html' %}

(Use ``'None'`` as the second argument if you just want to override the config template).

Note that if the given Slideshow slug does not exist, this will raise a Http404.

With the DjangoCMS plugins
**************************

Just go to the pages admin and use the plugin in a placeholder content. You will have to select a Slideshow that will be used in your page.

There is actually two plugins :

* **Slides show** : the default one to display your slides in a slideshow, it use the template defined in the slideshow object (or the default template if empty);
* **Random slide** : to display only one random slide, it will never use the template defined in the slideshow object, instead it will use the template ``slideshows/random_slide/default.html``. And unlike the *Slides show* plugin it don't embed a javascript config template because this is not really useful for a simple slide;

Templates
---------

Slideshow content templates will have the following context variables :

* ``slideshow_js_config`` : the generated config template if any, else an empty string;
* ``slideshow_instance`` : the Slideshow model instance;
* ``slideshow_slides`` : a queryset of published slides for the Slideshow instance;

Slideshow config templates will have the following context variables :

* ``slideshow_instance`` : the Slideshow model instance;
* ``slideshow_slides`` : a queryset of published slides for the Slideshow instance;

This is available for the template tag and the cms plugins.

With the views
**************

Views use the defined template in Slideshow instance, there is no particular process to define.

* You can reach a slideshow view with an url like ``/slideshows/show_slides/SLUG/`` where ``SLUG`` is the defined slug on the Slideshow object;
* You can reach the random image mode for a slideshow view with an url like ``/slideshows/random_slide/SLUG/`` where ``SLUG`` is the defined slug on the Slideshow object;

Commit message:

* Drop django<1.7 support (save it in branch django_1-6); * Removed South migrations; * Added Django migrations based on last model versions (so it's syncronized on the the last South migration); * Updated setup.py for better package classifier and django>=1.7 requirement; * Removed all DjangoCMS plugin stuff (plugin will be ported to a new package like 'cmsplugin-slideshows'); * Added 'settings.py' file containing base app settings to include/override; * Bump to 1.0.0;

README.rst, after:

.. _DjangoCMS: http://www.django-cms.org/
.. _South: http://south.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
.. _django-filebrowser: https://github.com/sehmaschine/django-filebrowser
.. _django-filebrowser-no-grappelli: https://github.com/smacker/django-filebrowser-no-grappelli
.. _djangocms_text_ckeditor: https://github.com/divio/djangocms-text-ckeditor
.. _django-ckeditor: https://github.com/shaunsephton/django-ckeditor

**Currently under migration to Django1.7, documentation is not up to date**

Introduction
============

Very simple, you can have **multiple Slideshows** and each of them **have their own slides**. Slides can be ordered and they contains a title, an optional content text, an optional URL and an optional image.

Slideshows can use custom templates and custom config templates. Config templates are used to contains some Javascript to configure/initialize your slideshow with your slider library. But by default a Slideshow item have no config template, this is optional.

It does not contains any assets to integrate it in your site, this is at your responsability to integrate it (choose and install your slider library, add your assets where you need, customize the template, etc..).

Links
*****

* Download his `PyPi package <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/emencia-django-slideshows>`_;
* Clone it on his `Github repository <https://github.com/emencia/emencia-django-slideshows>`_;

Require
=======

* Django >= 1.6 (Django <= 1.5 support has been dropped);
* `django-filebrowser-no-grappelli`_ >= 3.5.6;

Optional
********

* `South`_ migration is supported. This is not required, but strongly recommended for future updates;
* `DjangoCMS`_ >= 3.0 if you want to use slideshows `With the DjangoCMS plugins`_;
* `djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ >= 2.4.0 (it will depends from your `DjangoCMS`_ version) OR `django-ckeditor`_ >= 4.4.4;

Ckeditor
--------

A Ckeditor django app (`djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ OR `django-ckeditor`_) can be installed to use it for the ``Slide.content`` model attribute instead of the simple ``TextField``.

So **it is at your responsability** to manualy install (with pip, buildout, etc..) one of them if you need it. Once it's installed, you won't need to worry about this again.

Note that the default assumed app is `djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ and if not installed, `django-ckeditor`_ will be assumed. If you have installed both, `djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ will be used. If none of them is installed, the default Django field ``TextField`` will be used.

Choosing what app to install depends mostly from if you have allready installed DjangoCMS or not. If you have, you probably allready have its ckeditor app installed, so no need to install the other app because. If you don't have installed DjangoCMS, just install `django-ckeditor`_.

Finally you can add custom settings for CKeditor, see its documentation to see how to set them (you may have to go to official CKeditor documentation to know about available settings).

Install
=======

Add it to your installed apps in the settings : ::

    INSTALLED_APPS = (
        ...
        'slideshows',
        'filebrowser',
        ...
    )

If you have installed one of the django app for CKeditor, add it also to your ``settings.INSTALLED_APPS``.
    
Then add its settings : ::

    from porticus.settings import *

See the app ``settings.py`` file to see what setting you can override.

Also there is some settings you may see about `django-filebrowser-no-grappelli`_ (see its documentation for more details).

And add its views to your main ``urls.py`` : ::

    from django.conf.urls import url, patterns
    from filebrowser.sites import site as filebrowser_site

    urlpatterns = patterns('',
        ...
        url(r'^slideshows/', include('slideshows.urls', namespace='slideshows')),
        url(r'^admin/filebrowser/', include(filebrowser_site.urls)),
        ...
    )

You can fill entries with your custom templates if needed.

And finally add the new models to your database : ::

    ./manage.py syncdb

If DjangoCMS is installed (this should be as `djangocms_text_ckeditor`_ require it), a plugin will be available to use slideshows in your pages.

Update
======

If you have installed `South`_, after updating an existing install to a major new version you can automatically update your database : ::

    ./manage.py migrate slideshows

Usage
=====

Either with the template tag or the `DjangoCMS`_ plugins, the process to build the HTML will be to generate the optional config HTML if any, then generate the content HTML (where the config HTML would be avalaible as a context variable).

The common way is to display a Slideshow with all its slides, this is called the **Slides show**. And there is an *extra mode* called **Random slide** which only a display a single slide take randomly from the published slides of a Slideshow.

With the template tag
*********************

Create your slideshow from the admin, feed it with some slides, then use it in your templates : ::
    
    {% load slideshows_tags %}
    ...
    {% slideshow_render 'your-slug' %}

The first argument accept either a slug string or a Slideshow instance.

Also you can override the content template and the config template saved within the template tag : ::
    
    {% load slideshows_tags %}
    ...
    {% slideshow_render 'your-slug' 'slideshows/slides_show/custom.html' 'slideshows/slides_show/configs/custom.html' %}

(Use ``'None'`` as the second argument if you just want to override the config template).

Note that if the given Slideshow slug does not exist, this will raise a Http404.

With the DjangoCMS plugins
**************************

Just go to the pages admin and use the plugin in a placeholder content. You will have to select a Slideshow that will be used in your page.

There is actually two plugins :

* **Slides show** : the default one to display your slides in a slideshow, it use the template defined in the slideshow object (or the default template if empty);
* **Random slide** : to display only one random slide, it will never use the template defined in the slideshow object, instead it will use the template ``slideshows/random_slide/default.html``. And unlike the *Slides show* plugin it don't embed a javascript config template because this is not really useful for a simple slide;

Templates
---------

Slideshow content templates will have the following context variables :

* ``slideshow_js_config`` : the generated config template if any, else an empty string;
* ``slideshow_instance`` : the Slideshow model instance;
* ``slideshow_slides`` : a queryset of published slides for the Slideshow instance;

Slideshow config templates will have the following context variables :

* ``slideshow_instance`` : the Slideshow model instance;
* ``slideshow_slides`` : a queryset of published slides for the Slideshow instance;

This is available for the template tag and the cms plugins.

With the views
**************

Views use the defined template in Slideshow instance, there is no particular process to define.

* You can reach a slideshow view with an url like ``/slideshows/show_slides/SLUG/`` where ``SLUG`` is the defined slug on the Slideshow object;
* You can reach the random image mode for a slideshow view with an url like ``/slideshows/random_slide/SLUG/`` where ``SLUG`` is the defined slug on the Slideshow object;
